# What Google learned about teams

Google’s People Operations department analyzed team dynamics, observing the habits of team members and managers alike. They forrmed Project Artistotle to accomplish the task of finding out how to form the best groups of people and therby increase productivity. Through their research, they found that it was important to form teams in which member felt 'psyologically safe'. Psychological safety is ‘‘a sense of confidence that the team will not embarrass, reject or punish someone for speaking up....It describes a team climate characterized by interpersonal trust and mutual respect in which people are comfortable being themselves.’’ In order to achieve this psychologically safe environment, Google found that workers need to feel that they can be themselves. They need to be able to share their feeling and who they really are without fear of reprisal. In one instance, a team was having difficulty, but after communicating on a personal level, things improved drastically. The team agreed to take notice when someone felt left out, and encouraged communication. The overall findings amount to that fact that people are human beings that need the bonds that communication and mutual respect provide. Only by considering who their co-workers, can team members and managers know how to effectively speak to each other. This helps to facilitate a psycologically safe work environment.

(quote taken from NYTimes article: <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html?auth=link-dismiss-google1tap>)
