# The Growth Mindset

The Growth Mindset is a concept pioneered by psychologist Carol Dweck. It states that by locking people into a pass/fail paradigm, it inhibits their ability to grow and and new things. It also teaches, often from a young age, to constantly pursue validation for their achievements, even minor ones. The Growth Mindset espouses that the learning process is a curve, and students need to be reminded that they are on a journey to understanding. It also holds the idea that the challenge of learning something new is in itself the reward. Through many studies with children in public schools, Dweck was able to demonstrably prove that having this mindset  is effective. This goes hand in hand, I believe, with other studies about the plasticity of the human mind, and the effects of conditioning.

Adults can certainly benefit from having a growth mindset as they age as well. As we age, our minds are not as plastic as when we were young. Because of this, it may be more difficult, and require more effort and time to acquire new skills. Having a mindset aimed towards the idea of getting to a destination, the destination of mastery, can be beneficial. When we fail at something, we can remind ourselves that we aren’t, as Dweck said, ‘there yet’. We are, however, on our way. This was of thinking can help us stay motivated and push us forward in our efforts to learn something new.

It is interesting as well to think about this in relation to the talk given by Alain de Botton on success. The society we live in ridicules and casts aside those who are perceived as failures. This modern society views failures very differently than past societies. Botton states that this has made people afraid to fail. I think it is important to remember that although our goal is never to fail at something, we learn a lot through failure. 

I appreciate also what Botton said toward the closing of his talk. That we cannot be successful at everything. To succeed at something often means failing at another thing simply because we cannot humanly do everything. He also said it is important to analyze where we get our views of success from. The media is not a healthy place to take our influences from. What is success to each person should be defined by their values and circumstances, as well as their abilities. One should not view themselves as a failure because they have not achieved a level of success presented by this world. This is especially the case since, as Botton stated, society’s idea of success is transitory at best.
